## 1. [Git and Github](1_get_started/readme.md) Reflection

* What struggles did you have setting up git and GitHub? What did you learn in the process?
* Write an explanation of and compare git and GitHub to a non-technical audience. 
* Describe what version control is and how GitHub helps with it.
* Why do developers use version control (git)? Does that make sense to you? Why or why not?
* What doesn't make sense? What does?

<!-- Add your reflection here. Remove the comment markers -->
* What struggles did you have setting up git and GitHub? What did you learn in the process?
This is the first time I'm using Git and GitHub.  Setting up GitHub was fairly straight forward, but once I set up my account I had to read up the GitHub vocabulary to familiarize.  Git commands threw me of off because I had to go over a new list of commands other than the regular command lines, but once I started going over them, they did not seem too hard.  I went ahead and downloaded GitHub app to my computer. I tried using the Git commands on the terminal but  it did not seem to work because I did not go to my local directory/folder to initialize it by using the git init command.  But once I got it initialized, it gave an idea of how the whole linking process from the terminal--- Git---GitHub worked.  Another issue I had was to know if GitHub app automatically connects with the website or do I have to link it every time I start my computer.  This morning when I started my computer and opened GitHub app it was connected.  I still need to learn and become more comfortable using the terminal using git commands.

What I did learn in the process was there are a lot of resources to meet every learning level if you search and look in the right places.  The questions and feedback from DBC boots on Google+ was also a lot of help.  On day one I was confused with the whole process and felt overwhelmed, but taking a step back and spending time reading the instructions really helped to ease up a bit.  The next day I was a lot more comfortable with both Git and GitHub, and the other goals set for phase 0.  Also, writing about the process is really helping me to organize the work flow of Git and GitHub.

* Write an explanation of and compare git and GitHub to a non-technical audience. 
Think of Git and GitHub as two places where you keep all your files you need for a particular project you are working on.  The folder that you keep all your files is called repository, short for repo.  "Git" is present on your computer. One set of files that you are working on is saved in Git, which is present in your computer, this is called you local repository or local repo.  This is where all your files and any changes you make as you work along are tracked and kept.  

However, "GitHub" is a website where you can upload your files from your local repo or the files and changes that you saved to a remote place, the web site GitHub.com.  Your files are available for you to work at home in your local repo, and at work or anywhere else where you have access to an internet connection, using GitHub.  All you need to do is make sure your files are synched at both places. 

The advantage both Git and GitHub have over, say something like dropbox is that, Git and GitHub will save every change you make.  For example if you wrote something on day one and saved it to Git and GitHub, and then two days later you added more info or changes to the file and saved the changes to both Git and GitHub.  Git and GitHub will have two versions, version from day one and version from two days later, that you can check and review.  Just imagine if you were working on a project file for over a month, you will have access to all the changes you made over a month.  

*Describe what version control is and how GitHub helps with it.
Version control tracks any change you make while working on a file.  When you use version control, your file and the changes are tracked and saved.  For example, if you worked on a file for over a week, and during the process you made 10 different changes.  If you used version control, you will have access to the final file with changes, and all the other 9 files with changes you made at different times during the process.  Version control's real importance comes to play when you have to work on a file with different people.  In which case, it tracks and saves changes each person makes to the file.  For example, if you have a file called fixbugs.txt that two people are working on it, and say peron01 is working on the first part and person02 is working the second part of fixbug.txt.  Version control will have two sets of tracks of all the changes each one makes.  And then when both  have completed their files, both the files can be merged, but each person's file and changes are still available if you ever need to go back and check.

GitHub is a type of version control that is available on the internet for free where you can share your work and people can add to it.  GitHub allows you to host your local repo on the website. The advantage of using GitHub is when each person takes your original file and adds to your work a new branch of the original is created and the original is not changed.  At the same time you can take someone's file and start a new branch in your local repo and work on it.

* Why do developers use version control (git)? Does that make sense to you? Why or why not?
If a team of developers are working on a big project, where each one is working on one section of the project.  Version control becomes a very important tool, as each one can work on their respective section and finally it can be merged.  Also, what each one has contributed and changed during the process is tracked.  As a motion designer, I have worked on projects where I had to wait for one member of the team to add effects to one composition and send it to me to add effects to another composition.  With version control we could have done this by  working on our respective composition present on the same file and then merged the file and still had our versions tracked.

* What doesn't make sense? What does?
*I finally have a fair understanding of the whole linking process and how the changes are tracked.  Even though I get the idea of push, pull, branching and merging, I need to work on projects and see how the whole process works in order to fully understand the process of branching and merging.  I just started working on my assignments and hope to have a better understanding once I finish the rest of the packet due this week.
